In computing, the count–min sketch (CM sketch) is a probabilistic data structure that serves as a frequency table of events in a stream of data.
It uses hash functions to map events to frequencies, but unlike a hash table uses only sub-linear space, 
at the expense of over counting some events due to collisions.

In an ideal case for retrieving frequency of any streaming data we use HashTable 
as we can Store the HashValues in the Hash table and retrieve them easily at O(1). 
But by doing so we are storing all the data in the hash tables which will fall in to super liner Memory usage 
for very large (infinite) streaming of data.

To tackle this memory in efficiency model , we can use count min sketch to calculate the frequency in sub-liner space , 
because in this case we will not be storing the complete values of data stream , 
instead we will use a matrix to compute the frequency, 
where number of rows would be number of Hash functions we are using and columns would be number of out come of the HashFunctions.

Lets understand the count min sketch algorithm with an example

Lets say we have a stream of data

Stream = {A,A,B,A,B,D,A……..}

Lets define 4 hash functions H1,H2,H3,H4 and lets assume the below table for their out puts as shown in pic..

Now Lets Create a Matrix to keep a track of count of input streams

Here is the matrix of Hash function X possible Outputs (Matrix-1)

Now for each data from stream now lets calculate the Hash outputs and increment the corresponding counter in the table….

H1(A) = 1, H2(A) = 3, H3(A) = 1, H4(A)=2

So by increasing the corresponding counts in the matrix we will have .. matrix 2

Similarly next in stream we again get A so lets update the table .. so now the table will be matrix 3

Next in the stream we have B .. So the Hash output of B is H1(B)= 3 ,H2(B)= 5 , H3(B) = 3 , H4(B) =1 … 
so lets update matrix accordingly matrix 4

Next again A so updated matrix is matrix 5

Next in Stream is B so will be matrix 6

Now Next in Stream is D

H1(D)= 2 ,H2(D)= 1 , H3(D) = 4 , H4(D) =4

So updated matrix will be….matrix 7

Now again A…. so updated matrix is matrix 8

