A watchdog timer is a piece of hardware that can be used to automatically detect software anomalies and reset the processor if any occur. 
Generally speaking, a watchdog timer is based on a counter that counts down from some initial value to zero. 
The embedded software selects the counter's initial value and periodically restarts it. 
If the counter ever reaches zero before the software restarts it, the software is presumed to be malfunctioning and the processor's reset signal is asserted. 
The processor (and the embedded software it's running) will be restarted as if a human operator had cycled the power. 
[ Diagram : As shown, the watchdog timer is a chip external to the processor ]
However, it could also be included within the same chip as the CPU. 
This is done in many microcontrollers. 
In either case, the output from the watchdog timer is tied directly to the processor's reset signal. 

Kicking the dog 
The process of restarting the watchdog timer's counter is sometimes called "kicking the dog." 
The appropriate visual metaphor is that of a man being attacked by a vicious dog.
If he keeps kicking the dog, it can't ever bite him. 
But he must keep kicking the dog at regular intervals to avoid a bite. 
Similarly, the software must restart the watchdog timer at a regular rate, or risk being restarted. 

A simple example is shown in Listing 1. 
Here we have a single infinite loop that controls the entire behavior of the system. 
This software architecture is common in many embedded systems with low-end processors and behaviors based on a single operational frequency.
The hardware implementation of this watchdog allows the counter value to be set via a memory-mapped register. 

Listing 1: Kicking the dog 
uint16 volatile * pWatchdog = 
    (uint16 volatile *) 0xFF0000; 
main(void) 
{ 
        hwinit(); 
        for (;;) 
        { 
            *pWatchdog = 10000; 
            read_sensors(); 
            control_motor(); 
            display_status(); 
        } 
} 
Suppose that the loop must execute at least once every five milliseconds. 
(Say the motor must be fed new control parameters at least that often.) 
If the watchdog timer's counter is initialized to a value that corresponds to five milliseconds of elapsed time, say 10,000,
and the software has no bugs, the watchdog timer will never expire; 
the software will always restart the counter before it reaches zero. 


