Customer Obsession
Ownership
Invent and Simplify
Are Right, A Lot
Learn and Be Curious
Hire and Develop the Best
Insist on the Highest Standards
Think Big
Bias for Action
Frugality
Earn Trust
Dive Deep
Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
Deliver Results
Strive to be Earth’s Best Employer
Success and Scale Bring Broad Responsibility

Questions based with respect to each LP:-
Customer Obsession:-
Stories:- 1. Apple 2. China Operators
1. Unexpected demand from the customer/ customer demand did not make any sense
2. 

Story-2:- Prioritizing customer demand
1. At Qualcomm:- Multiple customers for 5G commercialization
Prioritize into :- P0 , P1, P2 etc
a. Cost Based analysis:- On the changes on number of lines required was given priority-1 as well as the importance of 
that customer
b. for customer which required testing in LTE and Wifi network , I pushed it by engaging QA and testing team
c. Kept an open communication channel by regular following-up with them with their demands and keeping a complete loop of 
main PoC of customer engineering team, testing team etc


Q] Who was your most difficult customer?
Q] Tell me about a time when you didn't meet customer expectations. What happened, and how did you deal with the situation?
Q] How do you go about prioritizing customer needs when you are dealing with a large number of customers?

Ownership:-
Story-1:- [Gone out of way to help a peer]
1. On-Call Rotation at Microsoft

Story-1:- [Task that was beyond your job responsibilities]
1. Senior team member left at Qualcomm. I took the ownership of our code signalling service module.
2. I quickly ramped up on the task which the senior team left

Story-2:- [Challenging Project/Project you were proud of]
1. High Memory Consumption :- Logging framework at Qualcomm reduced by 30 %
2. High Information Flow:- At Microsoft, Loss of data had to reduced by 40% . Consuming from various sources
and this is a pipelining work

Q] Have you ever gone out of your way to help a peer?
Q] Tell me about a time when you took on a task that was beyond your job responsibilities.
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to work on a task with unclear responsibilities.
Q] Tell me about a time when you showed an initiative to work on a challenging project.

Invent & Simplify:-
Story-1:- [Simple solution to complext problem/ think out of box]
1.Concurrency issue at Microsoft:- From persistent storage transaction that is writing into a disk to in-memory. Reduced delay in sending data 
in pipeline by 20%
Story-2:- [Invented something/ Made improvement in your company]
1. Call-Flow Parser:- At Qualcomm, used Python and django framework to display call flow for our internal customers and testing team.
Enhanced efficiency in debugging for my team by 30 % as it reduced the team to open the log file, then search for the log and then process
the call flow.

Story-3:- [Made Improvementst at your company]
1. Jenkins job that used to give weekly report of the number of drop in SIP packet flow in 5g wireless service. That used to get
represented through excel sheets
Was able to enhance productivity of team by 40%

Q] Tell me about a time when you invented something?
Q] Tell me about a time when you gave a simple solution to a complex problem.
Q] Tell me about a time you had to think outside the box (think creatively) to close a sale or sell your product.
Q] What improvements have you made at your current company?

Are Right, a Lot:-
Story-1:- [Used your judgement to solve a problem]
1. Jitter-rate:- In Qualcomm, used my judgement in networking domain from master's to increase the jitter rate over video call over VoIP.
Issue was faced by testing team. I checked the log and told them to configure higher jitter rate . Helped them save time and prevented from escalating to upper management.

Story-2:- [Insufficient information or incomplete data]
1. Sprint Planning at Microsoft:- There was one task that I was assigned to me regarding the integration of different agents with our service.
This task had to be completed in the up coming spring session. 
Task:- There was no clear terms that were defined in this task as what information had to be integrated in the service that I own. But still I had 
to complete before the next sprint deadline
Action:- I talked with different members of the agent team for whom we were the customer. Tried to get as much clarity from them. Yet the scope of
the project was somewhat unclear.
Result:- I tried to reason out how the flow of information had to take place, used my logic to absorb those information in my service and how
it can be done without causing minimal issue to other customers

Story-3:- [Time when you were wrong]
From Fb regarding deadlock issue in SLA, course correction and gained insight, live in future

Q] Tell me about a time when you effectively used your judgment to solve a problem.
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to work with insufficient information or incomplete data.
Q] Tell me about a time when you were wrong.

Learn and be Curious:-
Story-1:- [Learned new technologies]
Ans:- Picked up front end technology :- javascript and Node.js even though I had been a system guy and no prior exposure to that.
Situation:- During my time at Microsoft, a situation aroused where I had to develop a user friendly tool to display virtual machine health
report to our customer. This was need of the hour cause, customer was not a techinical person and I had to make his work as easy as possible.
Task:- I had to quickly learn this front end technology and start working on it.
Action:- Given that it javascript and node.js is vast and there is high learning curve, I start to learning first specific modules which were
necessary for my project. I allocated 10% of my daily work to learn this and made progress incrementally.
Result- Within a period of one month, I start making a good desing for our UI tool and customer seemed extremely satsified with this new UI tool.

Story-2:- [Smarter Decision with the help of curiosity]
Situation:- There was a situation during my internship at Intel, where I had to make meaningful and useful visualization chart using the testing log.
Task:- My task was to parse those information which very relevant and benficial for the team.
Action:- I checked and extracted throughput and bandwidth of the LTE/ifi network. Then consequently tried to put this information into a moving
average graph.
Result:- With my curiosity to learn about this visualization technique, I took smart decision to implement moving average chart instead of 
static chart. I enhanced the productivity of my team by 30% as they would can track of the changes in these logs in real time.

Q] Tell me about a time when you learned new technologies
Q] Tell me about a situation or experience you went through that changed your way of thinking.
Q] Tell me about a time when you made a smarter decision with the help of your curiosity.

Hire and Develop the Best:-
Story-1:- [Tell me a time when you mentored someone]
1. Mentor to an intern

Q] Tell me about a time when you mentored someone.
Q] Tell me about a time when you made a bad hire. When did you figure it out, and what did you do?[Not applicable]
Q] What qualities do you look for in potential candidates when making hiring decisions?

Insist on the Highest Standards:-
Q] Tell me about a time when you were dissatisfied with the quality of a project at work. What did you do to improve it?
Q] Tell me about a time when you motivated others to go above and beyond.
Q] Describe a situation when you couldn't meet your standards and expectations on a task.

Think Big:-
Q] Tell me about your most significant professional achievement.
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to make a bold and challenging decision.
Q] Tell me about a time when your vision led to a great impact.

Bias for Action
Story-1:- [Make a tough decision without consulting anybody]
1. When my manager was on leave at Qualcomm

Story-2:- [Took calculated Risk]
1. Tradeoff at Microsoft for availabilty vs consistent in the pipeline information - Calculated risk

Q] Have you ever had to make a tough decision without consulting anybody?
Q] Provide an example of when you took a calculated risk.
Q] Describe a situation when you took the initiative to correct a problem or a mistake rather than waiting for someone else to do it.
Q] Tell me about a time when you required some information from somebody else, but they weren't responsive. What did you do?


Frugality:-
Q] Describe a time when you had to rely on yourself to complete a task.
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to be frugal.
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to rely on yourself to complete a project.

Earn Trust:-
Q] Tell me about a time when you helped one of your teammates?
Q] Describe a time when you had to speak up in a difficult or uncomfortable environment.
Q] What would you do to gain the trust of your team?
Q] Tell me about a time when you had to tell a harsh truth to someone.

Dive Deep:-
Story-1: [When you took important decision without any data] similar to "Are right a lot" [Insufficient datat]
-> Build a small prototype , showed that out internal customer at Microsoft, they liked the prototype and then scaled to 
other external and internal customers

Q] Tell me about a time when you took important decision without any data?
Q] Have you ever been in a situation where you had to make a choice among a few options, but did not have a lot of time to explore each option

Having Backbone; disagree and commit:-
Story-1:- [Disagreed with the approach of a team member/conflict with your manager]
Qualcomm story from Fb

Q] Describe a time when you disagreed with the approach of a team member. What did you do?
Q] Give me an example of something you believe in that nobody else does.
Q] Tell me about an unpopular decision of yours.

Deliver Results:-
Story-1: [Couldn't meet your deadline]
Situation:- Commercialization of 5G at Qualcomm. Testing of code was remaining.
Requested customer and became open about delay from the field testing team.
Pushed in the code, then as and when more issue aroused, made necessary modification
Was able to satisfy customer with my progess.
Consquently was ablt to delive quantity work sacrificing on quality.


Q] Tell me about a time when you couldn't meet your deadline?
Q] Give an example of a time when you had to handle a variety of assignments. What was the outcome?
Q] Tell me about a time when your team gave up on something, but you pushed them to deliver results.





